Rick Antle: Cute. Thanks so much.
Rick Antle: Yeah, because, you know, this is something that you may well want to,
Rick Antle: you know, come see a few times, go right back to physically, like, 8 million things are gonna happen here.
Rick Antle: Okay? Not 8 million, but a lot.
Rick Antle: Thanks. Thanks, Carly. Okay, so…
Rick Antle: So, here we go.
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: So… This reconciliation tool
Rick Antle: the cash account is out of balance right here, because I wanted you… I wanted you to have to put in
Rick Antle: That cash flow from operations that we're looking for is 8.1.
Rick Antle: Is that… so that… so the reason that I started the… the… the whole…
Rick Antle: the worksheet this way is that I want you to put in the number you're looking for, right?
Rick Antle: Another number we're looking for that we're trying to explain the difference of is the net income or net loss.
Rick Antle: So… So another thing that we could put in right away, Is we could say, well.
Rick Antle: The net income was $400,000.
Rick Antle: Right?
Rick Antle: Now, this is the real, the real trick.
Rick Antle: even though I've already done all the accounting, I'm sort of… my process here is gonna mirror, like, a debit-credit process.
Rick Antle: And I'm going to tell you why. It's because we've got assets and liabilities and equities going up and down.
Rick Antle: And you get confused too easily about, well, wait a minute, if an asset goes up, does that mean that that's more cash came out, or less cash? You know, it's just a nightmare.
Rick Antle: Okay? So what the debits and credits really helped us do was keep the signs of things straight when we had… some things were positive, some things were negative, some things were increasing, some things were decreasing.
Rick Antle: Right? We didn't have to… once we learned the debit and credit notation, we really didn't have to worry about that.
Rick Antle: Right? We just made an entry, and then we went back and say, oh, wait, what'd I do? Oh, you know, and all we needed is a starting point, right? Like, oh, we got in cash, so I'm gonna debit cash.
Rick Antle: Now, the debit credit methodology tells me, well, I gotta look at what else could have happened.
Rick Antle: well, another asset could have gone down, we could have sold something, or a liability could have gone up, or whatever. We didn't have to worry about exactly what happened.
Rick Antle: We just knew we needed a credit of something.
Rick Antle: Okay? So it's… it's that… it's that technique for dealing with numbers that we're doing here. We're not really making any entries into any books. We're just using debit and credit notation to keep our heads straight, on straight.
Rick Antle: So right now, I haven't put something in that is not in balance, right? Net income is $400.
Rick Antle: So, the question is, what among all these accounts down here
Rick Antle: where would the credit side of it be? Well, retained earnings, right? Because we… because net income is closed into retained earnings. So if I'm going to say net income here.
Rick Antle: 0.4.
Rick Antle: Right.
Rick Antle: now I'm in balance, right? I'm in balance, I've not got… I want to zoom in so you can see the numbers and not be worrying about being in or out. Now I'm in balance.
Rick Antle: And I've set the thing up. I'm trying to explain the difference between .4 net income and the cash flow from operations 8.7.
Rick Antle: So the total of all the things I've come up with here has to total up to 7.7. That's the unexplained.
Rick Antle: But I want to show you something. I want you to look at the retained earnings account.
Rick Antle: Very carefully here.
Rick Antle: Because before I put the income in, The unexplained amount was 16.3.
Rick Antle: Now, that 16.3 is actually The… an operating thing and a financing thing are setting.
Rick Antle: Because the net income comes from your operations.
Rick Antle: But now I have unexplained of 16.7.
Rick Antle: Well, where does that come from? They declared a dividend.
Rick Antle: So if we go back here and look at the journal.
Rick Antle: We'll see that, look, right here, they declared a dividend, of 16.7.
Rick Antle: And that meant that they debited the retained earnings.
Rick Antle: Okay, so I'm gonna… I propose that I put that in right now.
Rick Antle: Oops.
Rick Antle: So I'm gonna say, well, The change in dividends payable was 16.7.
Rick Antle: So I'm going to go up here to dividends Payable, and say… oops, not interest payable, dividends payable.
Rick Antle: That they declared a dividend of 16.7.
Rick Antle: Does that make sense?
Rick Antle: Yeah, this is… I started, actually, with one of the… the trickier things, because…
Rick Antle: both sides of this thing I just put in, it didn't involve cash at all.
Rick Antle: It just, it affected retained earnings and dividends payable.
Rick Antle: You're cool with that?
Rick Antle: But now that we're on the subject of the dividends, let's think about… Oh, I see.
Rick Antle: I've re… I've redone these sheets so many times, I see what's happening. Okay, so, so that's actually…
Rick Antle: a financing thing, right? Financing.
Rick Antle: Wait, wait, wait, changing dividends payable.
Rick Antle: What?
Rick Antle: Why can't I?
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: So,
Rick Antle: Dividends payable and retail. Change of dividends payable.
Rick Antle: Hang on a sec, let me make sure I got this right.
Rick Antle: Alright.
Rick Antle: Now, They paid the dividend.
Rick Antle: Right? So…
Rick Antle: if you could… one way to do this is you look at investing and financing transactions, and I'm going to take out…
Rick Antle: All of the effects of those.
Rick Antle: Okay, good.
Rick Antle: So…
Rick Antle: All right, so are you ready? So, I'm going to take out all the effects of the investing and financing transactions. So, let's start with financing.
Rick Antle: One of them is, they paid a dividend.
Rick Antle: And they paid a dividend of 16.7,
Rick Antle: And that is a financing cash flow.
Rick Antle: Not investing cash flow. A financing cash flow, 16.7.
Rick Antle: paid, dividend.
Rick Antle: Now, I knew that already, but what did I just do? I figured out that the dividends payable account
Rick Antle: None of the change in dividends payable account, was, had anything to do with cash flow from operations.
Rick Antle: So I just cleaned it up from my spreadsheet, or from the accounts below.
Rick Antle: Alright, let's see, like, well, what were their other, financing transactions.
Rick Antle: Well, we can… we could go look at the, let's see…
Rick Antle: The cash flow tool, or we could look at the direct method statement.
Rick Antle: And we could see that another financing transaction was when they borrowed 47-3.
Rick Antle: When they… when they borrowed the, senior debt… when they issued the senior debt.
Rick Antle: Okay, now, if I scan these columns, I see that those are the only two financing transactions. So let me go back to the reconciliation tool and say, sort of the…
Rick Antle: senior debt, issued Senior Debt…
Rick Antle: And they… they brought in $47.3 in cash for that.
Rick Antle: And so, what effect did that have on their,
Rick Antle: assets and liabilities. Well, their senior debt account went up 47.3.
Rick Antle: And I'll just make my notation there, so…
Rick Antle: And get out. Now, now look, I've totally explained the senior debt account.
Rick Antle: So no… none of the change in the senior debt account had anything to do with operations.
Rick Antle: I should stop for a second.
Rick Antle: So, so do you see what I'm doing? I'm taking out things that didn't have anything to do with operations.
Rick Antle: And I know I have to take out anything that involved a cash investing, or financing transaction.
Rick Antle: And… I also have to take out things like dividends declared, stuff like that.
Rick Antle: That's where… that's where it kind of…
Rick Antle: you know, the way I usually would do it is I would do all the investing and financing transactions that involve cash, and then I would say, is there anything I missed? So this is a real… if you're actually in… having to prepare these things.
Rick Antle: In real life, this is a pain.
Rick Antle: Right.
Rick Antle: Okay, so, so now… what I've done… look, I fully explained the cash flow from financing.
Rick Antle: There's no… nothing unexplained left.
Rick Antle: This is cool.
Rick Antle: So I'm done with that.
Rick Antle: I also know that, look, they had cash flow from investing. I haven't explained any of that yet.
Rick Antle: So let's go back and very carefully enter the transactions that, that…
Rick Antle: Were cash flows from investing transactions.
Rick Antle: All right? Again, I'm gonna look at the Cash T account. Oh… Yup.
Héctor Clemente: I don't think we see your screen right now.
Rick Antle: Oh, thank you, you're gonna have to really keep me in… Because I'll,
Rick Antle: like I say, my Excel skills have deteriorated as my…
Rick Antle: Age has gone up, my Excel skills, or my, Zoom skills have gone down.
Rick Antle: All right, so if I scan and I look for investing transactions, I see one here, but don't make me do that one first, okay? I'm going to do that one last.
Rick Antle: So let's go down over here and look…
Rick Antle: Scoop, be quiet. My dog is in, so…
Rick Antle: My dog doesn't like to do the investing transactions, so he's gonna bark.
Rick Antle: So here we have one… 16 was an investing transaction, so now let me go back to the journal and look and see what 16 is. Oh yeah, they bought other non-current assets for 9.3.
Rick Antle: Okay… Back to the tool. So, they paid out 9.3, for… Other non-current assets.
Rick Antle: So now, let me go down… Here, to keep track of
Rick Antle: Because I'm trying to keep track of all these…
Rick Antle: Because other non-current assets, here it is.
Rick Antle: And what we just said, other non-current assets, they bought for… 9.3.
Rick Antle: And you see how the yellow is, like, going away, going away, going away? Now I know that none of the changes to other non-current assets had anything to do with operations. I'm done with that.
Rick Antle: Oh, cool!
Rick Antle: keep going.
Rick Antle: Here's another one. 22.7. Transaction 17. I gotta go figure out what that is. Transaction 17. They bought property, plant, and equipment of 22.7.
Rick Antle: Okay, let me put that in.
Rick Antle: They got it.
Rick Antle: 22.7, and they… purchased… BP&E.
Rick Antle: Okay… So, let me go to PP&E… Here it is.
Rick Antle: they… they purchased… EPA… Wouldn't I say, 22?
Rick Antle: 22.7.
Rick Antle: Now, I got 6 unexplained.
Rick Antle: Hmm.
Rick Antle: I wonder what that's gonna be.
Rick Antle: Well, I wonder if that has anything to do with operations. I don't know, we better… we better drill further.
Rick Antle: Okay, so notice the way I'm working through…
Rick Antle: One thing at a time, and… and entering the piece, and then… and then moving on.
Rick Antle: okay.
Rick Antle: back to… alright, the final investing transaction we have is number 18. So let's go look at what 18 was.
Rick Antle: Oh, that's where they sold the building.
Rick Antle: They sold the building for 1.9 with the 6 and the 4.1. Okay, so what I'm going to do is, I'm going to put that information in my reconciliation tool exactly as it appears.
Rick Antle: you know, Why? Because what I'm trying to do is reconcile two different calculations in my own records.
Rick Antle: Right? One of… one of the calculations is
Rick Antle: you know, the cash flows was 8.1. The other one was net income of 0.4. But both of these things are captured in the account, so everything I'm talking about here is what caused what account to change. It's all inside the records. I'm not going outside into the actual world for anything.
Rick Antle: Do you agree with that?
Rick Antle: This is all just… explaining what I've already recorded in a different way.
Rick Antle: Okay, so… they sold… PP&E.
Rick Antle: And they got in 1.9.
Rick Antle: Alright?
Rick Antle: And… they sold PP&E, It then had a cost of 6,
Rick Antle: Alright, that's good. Now, PP&E is all explained.
Rick Antle: But the entry doesn't balance yet, right? I'm 4.1 out.
Rick Antle: That's because I didn't record the accumulated depreciation. Now, this is what I want you to watch carefully, right?
Rick Antle: Because, look, the change in accumulated depreciation is 6.4.
Rick Antle: Right.
Rick Antle: But… it doesn't all go to the same place. It's not all for the same reason.
Rick Antle: sold… when I put sold PP&E in here, That, that 4.1.
Rick Antle: Look what happened to the unexplained part of accumulated depreciation. It's now 10.5.
Rick Antle: guess what? The 10.5… It's due to operations. That's depreciation expense.
Rick Antle: I'll show you.
Rick Antle: Oop, journal.
Rick Antle: Let's go look and see.
Rick Antle: Where did they record depreciation expense? Oh, right here.
Rick Antle: Number 4 is depreciation expense.
Rick Antle: 10.5.
Rick Antle: So… What we just did shows you what the worksheet is doing for you.
Rick Antle: That in any account that has
Rick Antle: Different reasons why it went up and down.
Rick Antle: We have to sort that out.
Rick Antle: Which ones were the operations, which ones were not?
Rick Antle: And you could say that this was the change in accumulated depreciation due to operations, because that was the depreciation expense that we wrote off.
Rick Antle: Most people, though, some… They just say, I'm gonna add back the depreciation expense.
Rick Antle: Oh, we're… oh, by the way, we're done with investing now, too, right?
Rick Antle: So everything else that's going on here has got to be for operations, so let me look, let me go ahead and look.
Rick Antle: What you'll see in practice is people call this
Rick Antle: An adjustment, and adjust for depreciation expense of 10.5.
Rick Antle: You can say, really, you know, you could also call it the change in accumulated depreciation due to operations. Nobody does that, but conceptually, that's really what it is.
Rick Antle: You know, I think accountants do it this way because they look at the income statement, and the first thing that comes to mind to an accountant is, well, there's some depreciation expense that we didn't pay any cash for.
Rick Antle: So they'll just add that. They run in and they add that back.
Rick Antle: So I could have done that, I could have put the 10.5 in, and then I would have been out by 4.1, and to find the 4.1, I'd have to… I'd have to go through and say, oh, it had to do with this investing transaction.
Rick Antle: Okay?
Rick Antle: So… What do you think's gonna happen in the next problem that we do?
Rick Antle: Which is gonna be… Russia Co.
Rick Antle: There's gonna be a bunch of accounts that have
Rick Antle: Changes in them that are from more than one reason.
Rick Antle: I'll show you how that's gonna… how that'll… how that'll happen, like, right now.
Rick Antle: Because we've taken out… we've explained all the investing and… investing and financing transactions that involve cash.
Rick Antle: We explained the dividend declaration, Which is a funky one.
Rick Antle: And now, I'm pretty sure that everything else… just… That all these other changes
Rick Antle: Are there because it's the difference between a cash flow and accrual.
Rick Antle: So let's look at accounts receivable, for example.
Rick Antle: That is… distance is 11.9.
Rick Antle: I see that.
Simon Horn: Sorry?
Rick Antle: 11… oh, am I… I'm doing it again?
Simon Horn: Yeah, we still don't see the…
Rick Antle: I'm doing it again, I'm doing it again. All I have to do is push a button.
Rick Antle: You know, I have this… I have this stream deck, You know, like… I was gonna be a…
Rick Antle: You know, a streamer, but…
Rick Antle: So all I have to do is push the button. Do I remember to do it? No. Okay, let's go back over.
Rick Antle: Okay?
Rick Antle: So, all…
Rick Antle: So the question is, for all these other things here, do… are all of them the difference between, like, an expense and a cash flow, or a revenue and a cash flow?
Rick Antle: So let's look at the change in accounts receivable. Accounts receivable went from 70.7 to 82.6, it increased by 11.9.
Rick Antle: Okay, so I'm just gonna say… Change in accounts receivable.
Rick Antle: 11 foot 9… And that… Is one of the explanations.
Rick Antle: I got going on there.
Rick Antle: And I want to call your attention to something that…
Rick Antle: Almost everybody in the world, except
Rick Antle: A few accounting people and you, by the time you're done, look very carefully at this… Phrase.
Rick Antle: Change in a balance sheet accounts due to operations.
Rick Antle: Due to operations.
Rick Antle: That's what I'm figuring out.
Rick Antle: How could accounts receivable change?
Rick Antle: And have it not be due to operations.
Rick Antle: Simple.
Rick Antle: They could buy a business unit.
Rick Antle: That's an investing transaction. They fold the receivables in, receivables would have gone up, but associated with an investing transaction, not an operating transaction. They could have sold a business unit.
Rick Antle: That's another investing transaction.
Rick Antle: That is also going to make the change in accounts receivable not be due entirely to operations.
Rick Antle: And that kind of thing is what we're on guard for.
Rick Antle: almost… Yeah. No… nobody… really understands that.
Rick Antle: And then, they might go out, pick up a financial statement, you should do this. You pick up any financial statements you want.
Rick Antle: and just look at the change in accounts receivable, the beginning balance to the ending balance. Then go look in the,
Rick Antle: the cash flow, the indirect method cash flow statement, and see if the change in receivables numbers agree with the number that you calculated for the change in the balance sheet. They almost never do.
Rick Antle: They almost never agree.
Rick Antle: Okay, because there's usually something going on that's not operating with some of these little, little, you know, that may be a small dollar amount, but that was never agreed.
Rick Antle: We'll come back on the last day, kind of where a lot of… why a lot of finance people mess this up, or why they have…
Rick Antle: Why many of them have deep misunderstanding about what's in the cash flow statement.
Rick Antle: And it's just because they deal often with a special case, that,
Rick Antle: And they think that their special case is the general case. It's not. What I'm giving you is the general case.
Rick Antle: Okay, we gotta find… Change in balance sheet accounts due to operations.
Rick Antle: So let's go over here and look at the receivables account.
Rick Antle: Accounts receivable.
Rick Antle: Okay, look at this.
Rick Antle: Why did the balance go from 70.7 to 82.6?
Rick Antle: Well, because they sold 501.7, That's revenue, but they collected from their customers 89.8.
Rick Antle: That difference…
Rick Antle: is exactly the difference in the beginning and ending balance in this case. There's nothing else in the T account.
Rick Antle: The whole change in balance was related to the fact that sales differed from collections from customers.
Rick Antle: Hmm… okay, let's go over here.
Rick Antle: To the,
Rick Antle: This is the direct method cash flow statement. Collections from customers, 409.489.8. Sales on the income statement, 501.7.
Rick Antle: So part of the reason that the net income of 4 differed from the net Cash flow from operations.
Rick Antle: is 8.1. Part of that reason was because the net income had sales on it.
Rick Antle: And the, but the cash flow statement has collections from customers.
Rick Antle: That's just what we accounted for.
Rick Antle: in our reconciliation, right? So… So you'll see, I'm not going to turn on the reconciliation… Why not?
Rick Antle: So you can look and see in the reconciliation that we're actually going to put down
Rick Antle: Well, the income was $400,000, Depreciation expense, add that back, 10.5.
Rick Antle: This is really saying, let me think about this, if they had collected, dollar for dollar, everything they sold, they would have had $11.9 million more in cash.
Rick Antle: So… So, the .4 has to be adjusted down by 11.9.
Rick Antle: For that… for that particular reason. It's got a bunch of other… let me… let me… let's just look and see how many numbers we're actually going to find here.
Rick Antle: 1… 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9.
Rick Antle: We're looking for 9 unknowns.
Rick Antle: That's a small number.
Rick Antle: You know, again, think back to the GM or the AIG one. The AIG reconciliation took a whole page.
Rick Antle: You know, there were 50 numbers on that thing.
Rick Antle: They're all… all of them have this flavor. They're helping something hit the income statement.
Rick Antle: And something different was hit the cash flow statement.
Rick Antle: And for AIG, that difference was huge.
Rick Antle: Right? Because their income was negative $100 billion, and their cash flow from operations was positive $755 million.
Rick Antle: So, when we look at these adjustments, they're just huge.
Rick Antle: Go back and do that and see what happens. But now what I'm going to do is I'm going to find all these other numbers. Right now, I found two of the crew I need, now I'm going to find the rest.
Rick Antle: Okay? And at this point, if we set things up correctly, it's just mechanical at this point.
Rick Antle: You say, alright, 10.9 of it.
Rick Antle: That was due to the change in inventory.
Rick Antle: Or, yeah.
Rick Antle: Or I should say, the change in inventory of, what was it, 10.9?
Rick Antle: the change in inventory is one of the reasons. What does that mean? That's because their cost of goods sold was different than cash paid to their suppliers.
Rick Antle: And one of the reasons for that
Rick Antle: Was that it looks like they…
Rick Antle: Did they decrease their inventory? No, they increased their… wait a minute.
Rick Antle: Change it. Did I do that right?
Rick Antle: Wait a minute.
Rick Antle: Good point.
Rick Antle: Stop, stop, stop.
Rick Antle: So their inventory… yeah, okay, right.
Rick Antle: Their inventory increased, By 10.9. And that meant…
Rick Antle: That served to say, if they would have paid for all that increase in cash, They would have had…
Rick Antle: even less.
Rick Antle: Cash.
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: Well, I don't know where my…
Rick Antle: Okay, keep going, keep going, keep going, keep going. Prepaid expenses?
Rick Antle: So, it looks like they added to prepaid expenses.
Rick Antle: Prepaid expenses? I don't know what I'm saying. 2.1?
Rick Antle: If I could remember my own notation, it would be good.
Rick Antle: There you go.
Rick Antle: Okay? So… Just keep going.
Rick Antle: Accounts payable, 11.4.
Rick Antle: So if they would have bought every 11.4, change in accounts payable.
Rick Antle: So they got, basically, their, suppliers.
Rick Antle: Because their suppliers let them charge things, they had… they had to come up with less cash than if they had to pay cash for everything.
Rick Antle: Da-doo.
Rick Antle: Boom.
Rick Antle: One bad thing about Zoom is it seems like I'm going really, really fast. I'm zooming on Zoom.
Rick Antle: That's not good.
Rick Antle: Taxes payable.
Rick Antle: Okay?
Rick Antle: Taxes payable… What, 4.2 over here.
Rick Antle: change in… Taxes payable.
Rick Antle: This is one I'll go check out in a minute.
Rick Antle: Paying in taxes. Payable.
Rick Antle: What was that?
Rick Antle: 4.2.
Rick Antle: No.
Rick Antle: once I've used the debits and credits to keep the signs straight, I will tell you right now that they paid less tax than tax expense.
Rick Antle: How do I know that? Well, because their taxes payable increased.
Rick Antle: So, let's just go look at the T account and see if I got that right.
Rick Antle: Liability.
Rick Antle: Taxes payable.
Rick Antle: Right.
Rick Antle: So… Okay, so they started off the year owing $1.5,
Rick Antle: They had $7 million in tax expense, they only paid $2.8.
Rick Antle: So, the increase in taxes payable represents the difference between the tax expense on their income statement.
Rick Antle: And the cash paid for taxes on their cash flow statement.
Rick Antle: I'll go back and look again.
Rick Antle: On their income, on their cash flow statement, taxes, cash paid for taxes, 2.8.
Rick Antle: On their income statement, Tax expense, 7.
Rick Antle: Right? The difference is… Taken up by the increase in taxes payable.
Rick Antle: Hmm.
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: What else haven't we explained here? Let's see.
Rick Antle: Well, I've got to keep… I mean, again, we got all kinds of payments to employers and prepaid expenses and accruals. Those are all gonna relate to SG&A, what a nightmare, because those are,
Rick Antle: you know, they don't relate to just one thing on the income statement. They relate to, I mean, they don't… the three of them don't relate to three separate things, they relate to all… all one.
Rick Antle: So let's go back and… Figure that out.
Rick Antle: accrued expenses, Okay, 5.3… changing.
Rick Antle: crude expenses.
Rick Antle: Strange and, food expenses.
Rick Antle: What'd I say, 5.3?
Rick Antle: Yep.
Rick Antle: Okay, so some of their expenses, some of the SG&A, they…
Rick Antle: They… they incurred by, but didn't pay for it.
Rick Antle: So you'd still O at the end.
Rick Antle: interest payable, That changed by 2.
Rick Antle: Interest payable.
Rick Antle: So, again, well, what I see was, oh, look, it looks like, yeah, they paid less interest.
Rick Antle: than the expense.
Rick Antle: Let's go look at interest payable and check that out.
Rick Antle: Interest payable. It started off at 3.8, look, it increased by 2, it went from 3.8 to 5.8. Why did it increase by 2? Well, because they had tax expense of 15.9, but they only paid $13.9.
Rick Antle: So… when we… as I keep doing this.
Rick Antle: What'll start happening to you is you'll hear… you'll start hearing me
Rick Antle: And you get the sense that this guy's saying only, like, 3 different things over and over and over.
Rick Antle: in different circumstances.
Rick Antle: That's correct.
Rick Antle: You know, the only thing that can be going on here is an asset can go up, or an asset can go down. A liability can go up, or a liability can go down.
Rick Antle: Right? That…
Rick Antle: with what we've been doing so far, right? I mean, a tricky thing would be, like, if they… if they issued
Rick Antle: stock for, to compensate somebody for labor or something. Yeah, we have to… we'll get into that.
Rick Antle: But… but most of the explanations are… they have the same flavor and over and over. They're just…
Rick Antle: what particular liability? Is it accrued expenses? Is it interest payable? Is it accounts payable? Well, look, I don't care. If the expense was higher than the cash, that liability had to grow.
Rick Antle: If the expense was less than the cash paid, then the liability had to pay… got paid down.
Rick Antle: And that's all we're tracking through.
Rick Antle: But it, you know, that's all, conceptually, but… It's a lot of details.
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: Last thing, hopefully we're just off by point A, Yeah, we got… Salaries and wages payable.
Rick Antle: That got paid down.
Rick Antle: Right? Look at this. So, it went from 7.7 to 6.9. That means they paid…
Rick Antle: They paid out more than their expense.
Rick Antle: And now, I'm done.
Rick Antle: And I know I'm done because…
Rick Antle: All of the changes in all the balance sheet accounts have been explained.
Rick Antle: And all of the cash flows, changes have also been explained.
Rick Antle: Right?
Rick Antle: So… I'm ready to write my statement.
Rick Antle: So here, this is what it looks like, right?
Rick Antle: Whew!
Rick Antle: You know, so… What we have to do is… Sort of do this enough?
Rick Antle: So that once you… once you really get your head around this, and it…
Rick Antle: It takes most people a while and some work to get your head around this.
Rick Antle: But…
Rick Antle: just think about all the language that I was just using. I was sort of completely able to explain what's on your income statement versus the cash part.
Rick Antle: That means I was completely able to explain what the accountants did to the story.
Rick Antle: You know, the accountant's recording things that aren't cash. That's accrual accounting, right?
Rick Antle: And the whole… Thing about telling a value story means you don't just track the cash.
Rick Antle: You track the cash, yeah, but we also track the value.
Rick Antle: And what this statement says is, okay, smart guy, tell me the difference.
Rick Antle: Inch by inch.
Rick Antle: And here, what did we figure out? There are 8 different reasons.
Rick Antle: Blowing.
Rick Antle: Oops.
Rick Antle: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 reasons.
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: So… so that's the game, and… and the idea of it is, again, what I'm trying to…
Rick Antle: what I'd like… where I want you to get…
Rick Antle: is where you're familiar enough with the method that when you look at some terribly complicated thing, like the AIGs.
Rick Antle: you know… you may not have ever heard of some of the specific items. Losses on super senior swap something or other, swamp something or other, but you're gonna know basically what it is, and why is it on the… the fact that it's…
Rick Antle: An item that's needed to reconcile cash flow with income?
Rick Antle: Tells you a lot about…
Rick Antle: Is this a result of some accounting rule, or some accounting practice? Or no? Or did they really lose the cash?
Rick Antle: So the difference is GM, you go back and look, no, no, they were… they were bleeding cash, right?
Rick Antle: So I think if you look at their reconciliation, they call it the indirect method.
Rick Antle: what would I expect to see in GM? A big depreciation add-back, because they have manufacturing plants, and they… they have to, you know, make the cars somewhere.
Rick Antle: But I wouldn't expect a lot of, sort of, esoteric kinds of adjustments.
Rick Antle: you know, or esoteric kinds of explanations as to why did their net income differ from the cash flow. And if you remember, it didn't differ that much.
Rick Antle: Like, their cash flow was still $12 billion out.
Rick Antle: Even their net income was $30 billion out.
Rick Antle: Okay, so… so this is kind of the last piece.
Rick Antle: Is it actually… there's… One more little thing we'll do.
Rick Antle: which is an accounting curveball. Don't worry about it, it's not hard, you're all set up to do it, it's not… nothing like this. This is the…
Rick Antle: This is the, the, the ultimate.
Rick Antle: And I guarantee you, if you go out into your law firm, and you know how these statements work.
Rick Antle: You're not… you're not gonna have many other people that are… you're gonna be explaining it to people.
Rick Antle: They're not gonna… they're not gonna be…
Rick Antle: They're gonna say, what? Why is that?
Rick Antle: I don't see.
Rick Antle: Okay, because it's… Very, sort of, indirect.
Rick Antle: Alright, so I'll tell you a little bit about, also, where we're gonna go next time. We'll do Russia.
Rick Antle: I made up this problem during the Trump's first administration, when there was lots of talk about Russia.
Rick Antle: you know, there was Russia… Russia had interfered, and anyway. So it's kind of a… Whatever.
Rick Antle: But, The idea is…
Rick Antle: then I'm gonna put in a bunch of stuff.
Rick Antle: That, helps you really understand
Rick Antle: The difference between a change due to operation and another kind of change.
Rick Antle: Now, I shouldn't have got away so quickly, I should have gone back to,
Rick Antle: the… oh, I closed down my… oh, that's terrible. I closed down my Excel spreadsheet.
Rick Antle: But I just want to walk through with you quickly a… Boom.
Rick Antle: Why'd it do that?
Rick Antle: Okay, there it is.
Rick Antle: So I want to go through one transaction with you, that'll kind of give you a hint for things to come. And of course, it's the building sale.
Rick Antle: Okay, so let's go down here and think… we did this in class a bit. We said, what if the building
Rick Antle: Had been sold.
Rick Antle: For not 1.9, but 2.9.
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: Then, this entry… would have…
Rick Antle: you know, I would have had to do this, right? I would have said, look, the entry doesn't balance, it's a thousand out, or a million out, so I'd have to come up with a credit for a million.
Rick Antle: And then I'd have to say, well, what is it? Well, they received more for a building than its book value.
Rick Antle: So, from the point of view of the accounts, that is a game.
Rick Antle: Oh.
Rick Antle: Gain on sale of building.
Rick Antle: Oh, it won't let me put it in there. I should have… I should have made it softer.
Rick Antle: requirement, okay?
Rick Antle: But that's… this would have been gain on sale, right? Gain.
Rick Antle: Now… Two things to notice.
Rick Antle: One is that the cash flow from investing would have been one higher.
Rick Antle: it was… it was 2… it was 1.9, and I just changed it to 2.9.
Rick Antle: So if I go over here to the reconciliation tool, okay, okay, okay, okay, go to the rec…
Rick Antle: Just a second.
Rick Antle: Hang on one second.
Rick Antle: Nevermind. I was gonna change it so that it would let me, type something in.
Rick Antle: But…
Rick Antle: But let's look at our financial statements and see what would have been different. Well, look, the cash flow statement's yellow because it doesn't add up to the change in cash anymore, because I just added a dollar in cash, right?
Rick Antle: Thus, don't worry about that. But,
Rick Antle: proceeds from the sale of PP&E would have been 2. Well, no, everything adds up, but what would happen is the proceeds from the sale of PP&E would have been 2.9.
Rick Antle: Not 1.9.
Rick Antle: Okay, so that's… that's… that's good. But something else would have happened.
Rick Antle: And this was the… this is the tricky one. My income statement here is not set up to do it.
Rick Antle: But what would we do with that gain?
Rick Antle: Well, the gain would be reported on their income.
Rick Antle: So their income wouldn't have been .4, it would have been 1.4.
Rick Antle: Okay, so when you have a gain or loss on a transaction, An investing or financing transaction.
Rick Antle: Then, weirdly enough, oddly enough, that gain or loss has to be, because it's an income.
Rick Antle: but it has to do with an investing transaction or a financing transaction, it's gonna have to be adjusted out of the income. It's gonna show up in these adjustments. You're gonna have to make an adjustment.
Rick Antle: And if there was a gain on a sale, That's gonna be…
Rick Antle: hit the credit side here, because that means your income was… our income would have been one higher, but that wasn't operating cash flow, so you have to take it out.
Rick Antle: Okay, so that's one…
Rick Antle: So that's one set of tricks I'm going to throw at you, is you'll have investing, or maybe investing in financing decisions where there's a gain or loss on. And almost everybody, when they're doing the worksheet, and they say, okay, I've got to put in the investing cash flows, and they start cranking, and then they say, where do I put the
Rick Antle: where do I… where do I put the… the gain?
Rick Antle: they get confused.
Rick Antle: Because the gain or loss actually is an adjustment, because it's in net income, but it's not a cash flow item.
Rick Antle: So that's one trick.
Rick Antle: Another trick is to have something that usually isn't an operating,
Rick Antle: An account that's usually not an operating thing tied into operations.
Rick Antle: So you can do that by issuing shares for compensation.
Rick Antle: Issuing shares to pay your rent, or to pay your lawyer.
Rick Antle: Those are all examples. Here's a weird… here's another weird one. You know, suppose you're a small, financially strapped… strapped company.
Rick Antle: And you owe a worker for working for some wages, and you can't pay, and you just let him take some piece of equipment and trade.
Rick Antle: Here, have this drill press, you know?
Rick Antle: then what that means is part of the property change and property plant and equipment would be operations. It wouldn't be, financing, or it wouldn't be investing.
Rick Antle: So there's another weird one.
Rick Antle: Let's see, what else? Oh, the final… the final…
Rick Antle: curveball that I can remember right now.
Rick Antle: You know, those are examples where it's either a gain or loss, or an asset or liability that you don't usually think of as having operational changes does have operational changes. That'll throw you off.
Rick Antle: But the other… the other way that people get thrown off is they assume every change in receivables, payables, inventories, and all that has to do with operations. And as I've said, that's not true.
Rick Antle: Especially when there's business… when there's business combinations, purchases of businesses or sales of businesses, then some of the changes in, like, receivables, inventories, all that stuff will be due to that investing activity, not operating activity.
Rick Antle: So, I mean, again, when a lot of, you know, a lot of people in my day learned their accounting, there weren't so many, changes in entity as there are now. So now, any big company, they're changing the entity all the time.
Rick Antle: So, let's take… oh, I know what I want to do for the last…
Rick Antle: few minutes, I made an assertion that we could pull up almost anybody's financial statement, and it's not gonna…
Rick Antle: is not gonna, as they say, tie out. Let's do that.
Rick Antle: So somebody tell me… I'm gonna… I'm gonna… I wanna share… I'm gonna do the old-fashioned share screen here.
Rick Antle: Okay?
Rick Antle: Alright.
Rick Antle: So… Somebody give me a company, any company.
Rick Antle: That you want to look at.
Simon Horn: Intel.
Rick Antle: Intel.
Rick Antle: We're good.
Rick Antle: Intel Investor… Relations.
Rick Antle: Okay?
Rick Antle: Intel investor relations, financial results, all SEC filings.
Rick Antle: They're just filing by type, let's look at their 10K.
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: Let's look at their most annual, and here it is.
Rick Antle: Annual report, HTML. Here's a PDF. I'm gonna look at the PDF, maybe. Do I want to do that? Sure, let's try this.
Rick Antle: Here they are, Intel, da-da-da-da, table of contents, da-da-da-da, risk factors, strategy, consolidated financial statements, page 65. Can't we just click on it and go there? Jiminy.
Rick Antle: Notes… oh, the… okay, 6… page 65.
Rick Antle: If you see something like a financial statement flying by, let me know.
Rick Antle: -Oh, what's that? Report of something looked like an article.
Rick Antle: Here we go.
Rick Antle: This is the audit report.
Rick Antle: Okay… Let's see… Let's just look at their inventories.
Rick Antle: Okay? So their inventories with… that increased… from…
Rick Antle: I'm doing… I got my calculator right now.
Rick Antle: They increased from 11… That's in millions?
Rick Antle: So that's 11,000 million, that's 11 billion.
Rick Antle: 11… 61A, And they went up to $12,198. Does everybody see where I'm looking for getting their inventories?
Héctor Clemente: They decreased it. Exactly.
Simon Horn: The second column is 24.
Rick Antle: streets, right?
Rick Antle: Thank you.
Rick Antle: God.
Rick Antle: And I'm experienced. They decreased, thank you. So they, they, they decreased by 580.
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: Now, don't make a liar out of me.
Rick Antle: blew this.
Rick Antle: 138.
Rick Antle: Right?
Rick Antle: So… 138… Is… let's see how careful they were.
Rick Antle: Adjustments…
Rick Antle: Mmm, I don't like it. They're sloppy. Changes in assets and liabilities. Most of the people would say, due to operations. They should have. Not good. I don't like them. I'm gonna complain.
Rick Antle: Because, again, if you just calculate it, you say, oh, the change in assets and liabilities, they're telling me the change in inventory is 138,
Rick Antle: And… on the balance sheet, It's… 5… 5… 8… 5… 80.
Rick Antle: Let's do another one.
Rick Antle: Changin'…
Rick Antle: I don't know, accounts payable? 297 says that's 297.
Rick Antle: Let's look at…
Rick Antle: Changes in accounts payable. Well, I guarantee it's way more than $297, look at that. I can just eyeball that. That's like $3 billion.
Rick Antle: Right? That's $3 billion.
Rick Antle: that it decreased.
Rick Antle: So when… so these numbers are the changes due to operations. There's not just the change in the account.
Rick Antle: That's why… We're doing all this.
Rick Antle: Right? You think… people that think of another accounting, and you just say, oh, Explain this. They go,
Rick Antle: So what most people do is,
Rick Antle: avoid the hell out of having to explain this. Just don't want to, it's hard.
Rick Antle: Okay? I was gonna say, I bet you that they had a lot of, mergers and acquisition stuff going, and in fact, I think I saw something…
Rick Antle: In their, cash flow statement about…
Rick Antle: reorganizations or something, restructuring and other charges. You know, so I don't know, Intel hasn't been in such great shape, has it?
Rick Antle: So they're probably doing all kinds of stuff like that.
Rick Antle: Okay, so let's go play in the snow.
Rick Antle: Unless… or I will stay here, and anybody that wants to ask me questions can.
Rick Antle: Or you could go… Do whatever you want.
Rick Antle: But just gotta do your homework. This is the hard part right here. This is it.
Rick Antle: And… I mean, isn't it kind of wild that you get these little… pieces and…
Rick Antle: Now, what's happening is, you have to have… you have to kind of have the whole thing in your head to do this.
Rick Antle: Good.
Rick Antle: Questions?
Rick Antle: We'll just do this a few more times.
Rick Antle: So, you might as well. So, we'll do a one-man class, then there'll be a problem… you're probably gonna have to do this, like, 3 more times.
Rick Antle: Right? So don't get worried, but there's plenty of time to get, because you have to… there's no,
Rick Antle: Yeah, no other way that I've ever seen.
Rick Antle: Alright, I'm gonna go.
Rick Antle: I might… I'm gonna have a glass of wine.
Rick Antle: Don't tell.
Rick Antle: People were dropping off. Simon, Hector, yeah.
Cullen Slavens: Here.
Rick Antle: Thank you.
Carla Melaco: Thank you!
Rick Antle: You're welcome. See you.
Simon Horn: Thank you.
Rick Antle: Running away now.